if you're a solopreneur an entrepreneur
or a personal brand trying to grow your
business using social media do not make
this mistake this one mistake is a
difference between people who are
struggling and can't figure out why
they're spending so much time on all
these platforms and not making any money
and those who are making millions the
names you know people that you follow
you watch the reals that they create you
look at the captions that they've
written and you want their success but
there's one thing they're probably not
telling you and today I'm going to lay
it all out I'm going to share with you
the number one secret that's going to
make all the difference if you want to
increase your bottom line when it comes
to building your personal brand or your
your entrepreneurship your business all
right let's do
this hey my name is shelene Johnson and
welcome to this edition of build your
tribe where my goal is to share with you
the things that really make a difference
so you can spend a lot less time working
and a lot more time monetizing your idea
your business and when it comes to
social soci media the number one mistake
I see so many entrepreneurs making is
spending all their time trying to grow
their social media and I get it those
are eyeballs and we think okay if we've
got someone paying attention to what it
is we're creating that's a lead but what
does it take to transition someone to
transform them from someone who's
watching your Instagram real or your Tik
Tok or your YouTube into a loyal paying
customer that's the question we need to
answer I bet if you really think about
it you probably know but I want to
remind you or I want to make it
perfectly Crystal Clear what the people
at the top are doing that everybody else
just isn't doing and this is what makes
all the difference in the world and it
is this building your own list your
email list I know you've heard it a
million times before but please let it
sink in this time we don't own our
social media we don't own our Instagram
we don't even own our YouTube audience
or our Tik Tok audience those things can
be taken away from us in an instant
either by accident you could get hacked
you could get shut down for Community
guidelines you didn't even know that you
were violating them and they won't even
tell you what the violation was you
could just lose your account for any
unknown reason that platform could just
decide to close their doors or go fully
pay to play so with that in mind that's
the number one reason why you need to
build your own email list but let me
give you even more motivation the
following statistics are from 2024 are
you ready for this this is going to have
you completely convinced that it's time
to use your social media to grow your
email list as of 2024 email marketing
efforts deliver a return on investment
of
$42 for each $1 spent so some of the
things I'm going to share with you today
they they do cost money but how exciting
is this research for every dollar that
you spend on growing your email list a
$42 return on investment like I can't
think of a better investment also
organic reach is on the decline like as
if we didn't need to know that as if we
needed a study to know that but now it
is said that Facebook and Instagram post
even if you're spending a ton of time
building those platforms on average less
than 5% more likely less than
2% of the people that are following you
are seeing your content on a regular
basis
when it comes to email marketing the
average open rate for email marketing
across Industries is around
21.33% the click-through rates on
average for social media posts is less
than 2% when it comes to purchasing 59%
of consumers say that email marketing
influences their purchasing decision
versus only 18% when it comes to social
media and when it comes to spending
money in social media advertising rates
have increased more than 20% this year
alone and lastly email marketing
conversion rates are close to 4% on
average which is more than
10% the conversion rate for social media
posts so let me break this down for you
that means all the efforts you're
putting into creating this post that
your hoping goes viral that you hope is
attracting new followers even if your
existing followers were to see it less
than 2% of them are seeing it and then
of that 2% we've got such low conver
conversion rates I mean handwriting is
on the wall you're going to work so much
harder for far fewer efforts if what
you're trying to do is sell on social
media what we want to do is use social
media to attract people to join our
community to become part of our email
list so that we have the ability to put
the right type of information in front
of them and we can do that with what's
known as a fremium now a fremium is
sometimes referred to as an opin or an
ethical bribe some people call it a lead
magnet in other words it's something
that we're telling our audience hey
you've got this problem I have this
solution I have this free thing let me
give it to you in exchange for your
email address or sometimes in exchange
for their cell phone number every single
day across all social media platforms
and we have lots of different accounts
for all of our different brands every
single day on every single account we
post at least one time that's
specifically meant to drive up our
premiums like it's specifically designed
to increase our email list and I'm going
to share with you exactly how we do that
I'm going to share with you fremium
types but what a fremium is is basically
a premium piece of content that you're
giving people for free so examples of
this might be an ebook a PDF an audio a
video course a checklist a sample
calendar a discount code a newsletter a
list of potential tools or resources
contests challenges an invitation to a
webinar a pre-recorded Workshop a free
consultation templates access to a
private Community or Facebook group or
free membership this is a list of just a
few types of premiums and ideally what
you should be doing is creating as many
of these as possible of the list I just
shared with you we have at least 80% of
that list we have some version of a
fremium I would say our top converting
premium are our challenges and when I
say converting I mean not that it builds
our email list the most or is our most
successful way of building our email
list it's one of our most successful
ways but more importantly challenges for
us have been one of the most successful
ways that an someone who comes in as a
lead someone who gives us their email
list eventually becomes a customer and
that is because of the elements that we
make sure are our premiums the things
that we offer to our leads for free have
these following elements I'm going to
share these elements and I really want
you to write these down because if you
already have a fremium or a lead magnet
that's working really well for you I
want you to just give it a quick audit
and see if you can't improve it with
some of these elements because while it
is really important that we're growing
our email list like I'm really excited
if you get a ton of people to click on
that link and then give you their email
address that's awesome but as you and I
both know I mean not everyone gives us
their best email address I'm sure like
like me you you probably have you know
your good email address the one that you
only
give to certain people and then you have
the email address that you use to sign
up for free stuff or that you sign up to
get discounts right and that doesn't
always turn me into a customer what
turns me what turns you into a customer
is actually having an experience where
you're like oh this this was good this
was really good and I got this for free
and this person is an expert or this
person knows what they're doing or this
person delivers on their promise and I
trust them I like them I've had this
good experience with them I want to do
business with them ultimately that's
your goal right because who cares if you
have this huge email list if none of
those people are buying from you and the
only way we can get people to buy from
us is if they have a relationship with
us they have to trust us and that takes
time so the first element of a really
strong premium is that it creates a
relationship that's more than just that
one touch point in other words we want
to create a Rel relationship where
there's we're spending they're spending
more time with us they're getting to
know us because it is through time that
we build trust so ways you can do this
with a fremium is a a drip sequence so
let's say that I want to give that
person the fremium I want to give them
is an ecourse and the ecourse is
normally an hour long well I could break
that up into 10 minute chunks and send
those 10-minute chunks of videos out to
them in a series of emails so now I'm
spend spending let's say 5 days with
them or 10 days with them if I'm doing a
challenge I can do a challenge for 5
days 10 days 14 days I will say that
today in 2024 shorter challenges are
performing better because if people
don't finish something like let's say
you give people like a 75 day challenge
or a 30-day challenge if they don't
finish the challenge they're like well
you know if I couldn't even stick to
that for free I don't know if it makes
sense for me to pay for something so
always consider the
attention span that your customer has
and remember this this is your first
impression of them so ask yourself if
the lead magnet you've designed the
freemium that you're delivering to them
ask them if by consuming it do they
really know who you are and what your
business stands for and what makes your
business unique you've got to create
intimacy or authenticity in that premium
so they're like okay first of all I love
their sense of humor I love the way they
write I love like they need to know this
is the brand I want to work with this is
the person I want to work with it can be
your language it can be for for example
for me if I get a fremium from somebody
who understands I don't want to read a
lot I want to scan give me bullet points
get me to the point don't waste my time
don't give me fluff I ain't got time and
I love the way that they speak like
direct and to the point and they're like
a little bit funny a little bit snarky
I'm like this is my This Is My Jam this
is who I want to do business with but
but if I don't if I don't get that sense
in the first impression that first
fremium they don't stand out to me so
make sure that there's a a degree of
intimacy in your premiums next you got
to make sure that your premiums are
proof red and that they're reviewed and
that the whole process from signing up
to looking at the thank you page to the
delivery and it all needs to be so easy
if it's a pain in the butt if it's sends
them to a broken link if on my phone I
have to scroll or I can't see where I'm
if if any part of the user experience is
negative it's a w w like right like
you've lost them you've got one shot to
make a first impression that also means
if you're like the big idea person like
myself and I'm also kind of like known
for typos I absolutely have to make sure
multiple people take a look at it and
make sure that everything is as it
should be that the there's no typos that
it looks beautiful and then I ask
someone who's not really that techsavvy
to go through the process of entering
their email address and I ask them tell
me where you get stuck tell me what's
frustrating tell me what uh didn't make
sense for you tell me what didn't
connect that's how we audit our lead
magnets to really make sure that the
user experience is topnotch because
again this is like this is like your
first date and if they don't love it
they're not going to open up your next
email the next thing I want to mention
to you is how important it is you
deliver on your prom promise so when
people land on your page where you're
requesting their email address The
Heading and we can let me know by the
way is if this is something you'd like
for me to break down like the elements
of a really good opt-in page because
that's different from what you're
delivering to them but let's say they
land on your opt-in page right and the
first thing that they should see is the
problem they should quickly say like
okay they're addressing my problem and I
see they have the solution when they
receive your fremium your lead magnet
your opt-in whatever you want to call it
it needs to deliver on the promise
whatever you promise them on that page
whatever they receive better exceed
their expectation ideally that's why
it's easy to take something you've
already created and for a period of time
use that as something you're giving to
your customers for free like a a lowcost
item or maybe even a portion of it and
use that as a premium and the most
critical and often overlooked element of
a high converting fremium is this it's
got to make the person that lead want
more so it shouldn't just make them feel
satisfied and like wow this delivered on
my promise but it should also pique
their curiosity it should make them feel
like okay this is amazing they solved my
problem but they've also made it
perfectly clear to me that there's more
to this so let me give you a specific
example so it kind of like all makes
sense so let's assume that the person
who I'm trying to attract is a woman
who's 40 years old and she's having
these like weird symptoms that she's
like thinking maybe she's dying like her
body's just not cooperating with her and
she's trying to figure out what is going
on with her body so I can deliver to her
a simple quiz along with information
that helps her to identify of the
symptoms she has what they mean what
they probably are and help her to
determine in most cases it's likely per
menopause a decline of her hormones okay
so now I've solved the problem for her
I've helped her to figure out like what
are these symptoms and what does it mean
but what I haven't done is solved the
whole problem the big picture so a good
fremium is going to solve her immediate
problem but also help her to know
there's there's a Next Level what do you
do if you're that woman and you actually
want to resolve these symptoms if you
want to feel like yourself again I'm
going to help her in that premium know
that there's a next step and we can help
her with FAS it which is a company one
one of the brands that we operate so
don't be afraid to let that person they
they they're dealing with a problem
they're looking for a solution you've
given them a partial solution but don't
be afraid to let them know you've got
the whole thing you can help them on
their
Journey remember that often times the
person who's downloaded that one fremium
if they even download the fremium a lot
of times they give you that email
address and your copy your email is
written in such a way that it doesn't
even excite them to open it up right and
that's like a whole another skill set
that we can talk about but like that
first email that delivers to them the
premium is so important but okay now
they've opened up that premium but if it
solves all their problems and they're
like thank you you just fixed everything
for me for
free you'll never monetize that customer
I mean we we want to give them free
content premium free content but not so
much that they're completely satisfied
we want to leave them wanting for more
and we want to give them the call to
action so that they know what they need
to do in order to take that next step
now email marketing and the the way that
we deliver premiums even landing pages
these things change all the time based
on marketing Trends based on the you
know like what people respond to what's
converting we study this stuff and even
though as a consumer when I give someone
my email address I love it when I land
on their thank you page and I can just
click on a link and download the PDF I
love that isn't that so convenient yeah
it's super convenient for me the
customer but for that business owner I
didn't open their email I didn't have to
I gave them my email address but I
didn't have to look at an email they let
me download it from their thank you page
I can tell you from our personal
experience that doesn't turn into a
customer even though it might be one
extra step and you feel like oh that's
kind of an inconvenience for the
customer that one extra step is going to
give you a much better customer by
having them actually open the email to
receive the fremium because now what I'm
doing is I'm conditioning that customer
that every time they open an email it's
going to be something of value that I'm
going to deliver on my promise I'm not
going to waste their time I'm going to
cut straight to the point no BS here you
go here's that thing and if you want
more here's the next thing the one email
we know has the absolute highest open
rate is a confirmation email it's the
email we're looking for it's the email
that has our thing we know that people
open that email so don't be afraid at
the bottom of that email to put a PS
here's your free thing but PS if you
want to join my free community if you
want more don't be afraid to let them
know where they can actually do business
with you and what it is you can offer to
them don't be afraid to make the sale in
the PS like I'm not a fan of like pushy
hard sales in that delivery email but I
also think it's kind of rude if I have
something that will solve their next
problem and I'm not telling them about
it I also think it's silly to think that
they're going to open up another email
for me like we just don't have time
right so just don't be afraid to write
the email in a way that fits your brand
and your brand voice but for a lot of
people you're making it way more
convenient to say oh by the by the way
if you're still struggling with this
problem which you know that they are
that's why they gave you their email
address here's another solution besides
this free thing Now setting up your
email list is for a lot of people the
the thing that holds them back right
like because you're probably a super
creative person you've got like lots of
big ideas but maybe you're not great at
the tech and maybe you don't have the
the team that can help you with that so
you've got some options number one you
can buckle down and try to learn this
stuff yourself and there's lots of great
sites that are pretty much plug andplay
you know like a MailChimp like basic
ones right we personally use keep which
is formally infusion soft keep is the
next level like for us it's how we keep
track of our customers it's how we can
create templates that make the whole
process like dummy proof but it is more
robust so if you are a solopreneur who
doesn't have that skill set keep does
offer kind of a a done for you service
and it's exeptional I'll put a link to
it below in our show notes and in fact I
will give you our our templates so when
you work with keep you'll actually see
our templates you can customize them for
yourself you're welcome to do that but
the other thing you can do is hire an
independent contractor somebody on say
upwork someone on Fiverr to help you set
these systems up everything from writing
that first email to the copy on your
landing page to the delivery of your
premium and then also breaking down
those people who are lead magnets so you
know where they came from you know which
lead magnet they subscribed to your list
for and that way you can send them a
much more curated more personal email
and that's how we keep people on our
email list I hope this is helpful for
you listen the biggest names of people
who are killing it in social media and
by killing I meaning not that they're
social medias are huge when I say
killing I mean they're making millions
and millions and millions right like the
herois G vaynerchuk Amy Porterfield
Marie foro Brenan brashard Dean graos
Tony Robbins like the entrepreneurs who
whose names you
know yeah they're using social media but
they're using social media to grow their
email list so it's time you make that a
goal like when you're looking at the
social media content that you're
creating at least 80% of it should in
some way some shape or form help those
people realize they can get on your
email l they can get something for free
from you if you want to see examples of
this follow me on social media I do it
every single day on my stories you can
also follow my co-host Brock Johnson
he's Brock 11 Johnson on all the
platforms and we do this on a regular
basis so you can see it live and in
action hey thanks so much for joining me
today on this episode of build your
tribe if you would please do me a favor
if you made it to this point I would
love it so much if you double check to
make sure you were subscribed to our
Channel it it does really mean the world
and drop me a comment let me know what
additional details or what lessons you'd
like to learn about email marketing or
maybe even a landing page drop that in
the comments below and we'll be sure to
make that video for you that's it for
today my goal is to be brief to be
bright to make it fun and then be done
ladies and gentlemen we're done
[Music]